- [Instructor] The Java API for JSON processing,
or JSON-P,
is an API within Java EE that provides developers
with additional support for working with JSON.
Specifically,
it provides support for parsing, generating,
transforming, and querying JSON in Java applications.
JSON-P contains two approaches JSON parsing and generation.
One based on an object model
and another based on a streaming model.
The object model is a high-level API
that is simple and easy to use.
It provides the ability to read and create JSON
using a key value based approach
that is very similar to working with a map.
While the object model is easier to use,
it is not as efficient as the streaming-based API
because objects are stored in memory.
The streaming API is a low-level API
designed to consume and produce large amounts of JSON
using a parser based on an event model.
It is more efficient because the processing
avoids storing most of the JSON in memory.
Additionally,
within the API we'll find support
for JSONPointer and JSONPatch.
These allow us to traverse
or modify sections of a JSON document
with path-based expressions.
Let's dive a little bit deeper into these approaches.
Here we see an example of using the object model
to build a JSON document.
The object model uses a fluid builder API
that allows us to easily chain message calls
to build the two primary JSON structures,
objects and arrays.
Building a JSON object is pretty simple.
We chain calls to the add method
which accepts the property name as the first argument
and the value as the second argument.
You will notice objects can be nested within objects
to build JSON documents,
and the structure of our calls
aligns to the format of a JSON document.
Here we see an example
of using the object model to read a JSON document.
It uses a JSON reader to provide random access to properties
using their property names.
Similar to retrieving a value from a map with a key.
When accessing property values,
we have the option to access them
via a JSON string for text values
and a JSON number for numeric values.
The JSON-P streaming API uses a different approach
for working with JSON
that is a little bit more verbose but more efficient.
When using the streaming API to create a JSON object,
we get a generator instance
and then begin to write the object
by invoking the write method
with the property name and value as arguments.
When using the generator,
we need to explicitly start and end
both objects and arrays.
Let's now take a look at parsing using the streaming API.
We'll use the same JSON document from the last slide
in this example.
When parsing using the streaming API,
we must create a parser based off of a reader.
From there,
we use the parser to iterate the events
in the JSON structure.
If you look at the comments in the code
you will see that as we iterate the object,
we encounter different events
that correspond with the document.
The events indicate one of several types,
including the start or close of an object or array,
a key, or a value.
If we want to retrieve a property name or value
when iterating through the JSON,
we can use several get methods
that will type will type the value of that object
at a particular location in the JSON structure.
JSONPointer support is another feature found
within the JSON-P API.
It allows for easy access to JSON properties
via a path-based expression,
similar to how XPath can be used to access XML elements.
So if we look at the JSON on the right,
we can use our first expression to access the name property.
Our second example illustrates how to traverse arrays
using the expression.
JSONPatch also uses the path-based expression approach.
However, it uses it for modifications to the JSON document.
Using JSONPatch,
we can add, change, or remove properties on a JSON object.
We'll see all of this in action
as we work through the chapters in this lesson.